\input{../definitions}
\title{\TM{} - Study Guide - Milestone 6: Compressing the audio data with \href{https://zlib.net/}{zlib}}

\maketitle

\section{Description}

It's time to reduce bandwidth comsumption in InterCom. The
\verb|pack()| and the \verb|unpack()| methods can compress and
decompress, respectively, the chunks that are processed. To compress
and decompress, we will use a free
\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Codec}{codec} named
\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DEFLATE}{DEFLATE}, which is based
on
\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lempel%E2%80%93Ziv%E2%80%93Storer%E2%80%93Szymanski}{LZSS}
  and \href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huffman_coding}{Huffman
    Coding}~\cite{nelson96datacompression}. See this
  \href{https://github.com/vicente-gonzalez-ruiz/LZ77}{notebook} and
  this
  \href{https://vicente-gonzalez-ruiz.github.io/Huffman_coding/}{notebook}.

The DEFLATE algorithm is implemented in the Python's standard library
\href{https://docs.python.org/3/library/zlib.html}{\texttt{zlib}}. We
have used this facility for compressing and decompressing the chunks
that we are sending and receiving in the methods \verb|pack()| and
\verb|unpack()|, respectively. These methods are implemented in the
module \verb|compress.py|, inside of a the class \verb|Compress|, and
override the defined in the parent class.

\begin{figure}
  \begin{center}
    \myfig{graphics/reordering}{5cm}{500}
  \end{center}
  \caption{Sample reordering to create two independent channels.}
  \label{fig:reordering}
\end{figure}

In order to increase the
\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_compression_ratio}{(data)
  compression ratio}, reorder the samples as it is shown in the
Figure~\ref{fig:reordering}. Notice that with this shuffling, the
samples are not interleaved and the correlation between consecutive
bytes is slighly increased. Notice also that the number of UDP packets
remain constant respect to parent code.

\section{What you have to do?}

Repeat the experiment performed in the previous milestone but
expresing the QoE as a function of the transmission bit-rate. Use the
\verb|tc| tool.

\section{Timming}

Please, finish this milestone at most in one week.

\section{Deliverables}

A report documenting the experiment and the results.

%Create a Python module named compress.py and store it in the
%\href{https://github.com/Tecnologias-multimedia/intercom}{root
%  directory} of your InterCom's repo.

\section{Resources}

\bibliography{text-compression}
